April 17, 1986. This is a test.
Today is April 17, 1986. This is Terry Anderson.
I'm interviewing Frank Wilkinson about his life
as a civil libertarian. Now, you've been involved
in that for 40 years, well, since the 1940s, maybe
since the 1930s. Could you tell us something about
your early years? How did
you get involved with that? What in your early
years contributed to the fact that you became so
involved in the First Amendment, the U.S.
Constitution?
I believe that I would mark 1942, spring of 1942,
when I first became active in civil liberties and
civil rights work. At that time I was 28. I was born
in 1914. I was born in a resort town in northern
Michigan, Charlevoix, Michigan. Moved to
Arizona briefly from when I was 3 until 10. And then
moved to Beverly Hills, California through grade
school, high school, through UCLA. My father was a
medical doctor, a graduate of Ann Arbor, who was
assigned to Arizona during World War I, and then he
went into private practice in Hollywood in Los
Angeles, Beverly Hills, in 1925.
The question was, what do I attribute to my
interest?
I believe that in terms of the ethics which I
follow, which I think I would describe today as
being essentially materialist,
that I think the ethics of my upbringing in some
respects are more basic than a more economic or
material analysis that I might have of history
today. I was brought up in a very wonderful family,
the youngest of four children. My brother and
sister both became medical doctors. We were
active in the Methodist Church from the time I can
first remember all the way through college. My
father was the president of the Protestant Men's
Movement of Southern California. And my whole
life was put into the Methodist Church from the
primary grade school, high school, everything.
Somewhere around the beginning of my work at UCLA,
my undergraduate work at UCLA, beginning in 1932,
I went from just the perspective limited
perspective of the Methodist Church, to become
the chair of the board of a group called the
Religious Conference Student Board at UCLA. The
board is set up by the National Conference of
Christians and Jews, whereby Catholics,
Protestants, Jews, free thinkers for that
matter, shared the same building. had offices all
but in a common building. That was a very valuable
influence on my life because I had really never met
anybody except a Methodist, I think, up until that
time.
Politically, the family was very conservative.
I was the head of for Herbert Hoover in Beverly
Hills High School, but the issue there was a
Methodist issue. Hoover was a dry, and Roosevelt
was a wet.
My father was a prohibitionist.
I also was the first president of the Hollywood
Young People's of the Women's Christian Templars
Union, the WCTU, which was formed in the Methodist
Church South in Hollywood, which is the southern
branch of the Methodist Church, not my own
Hollywood Methodist Church.
All
the way through UCLA,
I was primarily active as a leader in the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon In fact, I had been pledged to SAE
while I was still at Beverly Hills High School. My
brother and my brother-in-law had been SAE. And I
was a very promising campus political person, and
so the inducement to get me to join SAE while I was
still in high school was that the politics of the
fraternities at UCLA so controlled by the
fraternities and sororities that they could tell
me that four years from the time I entered that SAE
was due to become the fraternity that would
produce the student body president. Well, I was
literally offered student body presidency at
UCLA four years from the time I matriculated. And
so everything was done to advance me politically
on campus to develop my name recognition.
I probably was a good student, but I was much more
interested in social life.
I'm eighty percent deaf, probably about forty
percent deaf at that time,
and I was so vain that I was afraid that if I wore a
hearing aid that I wouldn't be popular on the
campus or with women. So I went all the way through
UCLA without hearing a lecture.
Some jokes about that nowadays. The reason I
turned out all right is that I didn't hear what they
were teaching. But the whole thing was satisfying
my popularity needs, personality needs. But back
of all this was this very, very strong sense of a
Methodist conscience,
whatever that means. There was no challenge to a
social gospel that I held until after I got out of
UCLA, except questions like, the moral issues
like drinking and dancing and smoking and that
kind of an issue. I didn't drink, I didn't smoke, I
didn't, those were just moral issues that were
involved in my background. I was pretty active in
sports. I ran a mile in cross country. at Beverly
Hills High School, and I rode on the first UCLA
crew, the eight orange shells, my first person in
my sophomore year.
When the election came for student body president
in 1935, there had been a move made somewhere on
campus, probably by the administration,
to require that all students had to become voting
members of the associated student body.
From 32 to 35, the only people who joined the ASUC
were essentially the fraternities and
sororities. representing about 2,200 students,
I imagine. On 35, the franchise was given to all
students
as a compulsory part of the fees of matriculation.
And so the whole plan to have me student body
president was suddenly confronted with the fact
that the majority of the students on campus were no
longer in fraternities and sororities. Exactly.
The voters. The voters. And the university under
the provost, Ernest Carroll Moore, was alarmed
about this. He had a lot of confidence in the
fraternities and sororities, and particularly
in me, and was fearful of the radical students. on
campus to non-organizational students. Each
year the appropriation for the university was
subject to question due to some incipient radical
activities at UCLA.
So an arrangement was made whereby I was running
against a rather popular non-organizational
student
and The administration wanted every way possible
to have me defeat him. So two things were done.
First of all, the administration for the first
time had a major conference on the question of war
or peace, 1935. This was four years before the
outbreak of World War II. There was a great deal of
pacifism, and the university was concerned about
pacifism. I was a religious pacifist, not an
economic or radical pacifist.
And so the administration arranged for me to
debate this non-organization student.
So the public was here, both of us together, the
administration hoping that I would come out ahead
and be popular and be elected. At the same time,
some of the non-organizational students started
to have forums
on campus which, contrary to university
regulations,
had no faculty sponsorship. The university
required all campus organizations to have
faculty sponsorship, and these forums were
deliberately in the face of that, to have no
faculty involved, just student-operated open
forums
and the administration was against that and I
think I was against that but the man who I was
running for student body president was one of the
leaders in that so the administration saw the
opportunity to eliminate almost you might say the
opposition to me by expelling those students who
were in the non-faculty represented forums. And
about a month before the election, they held a
forum, and five students were expelled,
including the candidate against me for student
body president. So I was then a shoe-in.
Two weeks before the election,
enormous student protests developed. the
administration was forced to back down and
reinstate the students. And when the election
came, I was wiped out.
They had made another martyr.
Interesting about who the five students were that
were expelled. I've often thought about them.
First of all, the man—we were labeling all these
people communists or radicals, very The man I was
running against became a law professor at a small
college down in Florida. He, I think today, is the
executive director of the Trial Lawyers
Association of America. Very successful, very
affluent lawyer. Another one is a corporation
lawyer in Beverly Hills. A third one, who had been
the student body president the year before, half a
year before, became a United States Army general
and became the, was the director of the Army War
College in Washington, D.C. A fourth one
went to work for Jimmy Hoffa and the Teamsters
Union. It was a right-hand man, Jimmy Hoffa. He was
killed in some Teamster fire situation some years
ago. And there was a fifth or a sixth was a woman,
Celeste Strack, and she did become a communist.
Very interesting. And today, is that
the 36th? Fifty years. Fifty years ago. Fifty
years to the day. I now have served one year in the
federal prison on a First Amendment challenge of
the Un-American Activities Committee. Sure. In a
lawsuit, the American Civil Liberties Union,
Southern California, is sponsoring on behalf of
myself and Carl, the National Committee Against
Repressive Legislation, NCARL, We've learned in
the last six years that my life was followed and
altered
by surveillance and disruption by the FBI from
1942,
when I really took my first social concern stand,
until 1980. In the federal district court in Los
Angeles last month, the FBI admitted to the judge
that they have 132,000 pages of surveillance on me
from 1940 to 1980. And the law firm handling this,
which I, my own choice, I had the contacts. It's the
second largest Republican law firm in LA, lobe and
lobe. made up, younger people particularly, have
made up with I think this day would characterize as
yuppies. They're really getting an education.
They're handling this all pro bono as volunteer
council for ACNU of Southern California. And we
estimate that the FBI spent 17 million dollars on
surveillance on me from 1942 to 1980. And we have a
lawsuit now against the FBI claiming $16 million
in damages, as well as injunctive relief to stop it
from happening anymore, not only to me, but to the
next generations. I think it's interesting, is
that those who are considered most radical,
communist, and the kind of witch hunts of the 30s,
have turned out to be very conservatives. And I,
who was the most conservative. Youth for Herbert
Hoover, Sigma Alpha Epsilon for Trinity type,
that turned out to be the liberal. That is
interesting. I
wanted to ask you something along those same
lines. In 1942, you began your career along the
civil liberties side. What happened between that
period of 36 when you graduated from college, when
you were the
more conservative candidate, and by the time you
went in 1942? What were some of the variables that
came together that obviously disillusioned you
or made you much more of a social activist? Six year
period.
turnaround in my life. It came about as a result of a
decision I made in the last year of UCLA. I'd always
thought about it, but I finally decided to become a
Methodist minister.
I was quite influenced by a pledge brother of mine,
named Lloyd Bridges. He later became a motion
picture actor, Bud Bridges. He was my pledge
brother. And,
interesting enough, Lloyd Bridges became an
informer for the Un-American Activities
Committee in the 40's, and apparently became a
radical, after I knew him at UCLA. Did he inform on
you? No. He didn't know me except for my fraternity
brother. He informed on people in the motion
picture industry. I
guess with this type of a history, an anecdote, not
an anecdote, but a specific will give you the
measure of what I was like. During Halloween
1933, we'll say, when I was about ready to go out of
being a pledge to becoming a regular member of
S.A.E. They put us through a great, very rigorous
strain, no sleep for seven days, all kinds of
nonsense, and work. And the last night, they sat us
down, Bud and me and four or five others who were
being blinged, and gave us a sheet of paper with
blank words missing.
ask us to fill it out in ten minutes, not to talk to
each other. When I looked at this,
every blank word had to do with sexual
relationship with a woman. Here, I'm a virgin and
never had intercourse. I never had intercourse
while I was at UCLA. Very unusual for this
generation. But I looked at these words, I knew the
words, I never used them, but I recognized the
blank spaces. And though in great fatigue, I
filled in the blanks, holding up to the last
minute, and then they pressed me, and I just
hurried through and filled it in real quick. When I
came in an hour later to the final meeting with the
Supreme Archon, the leaders of the National
Fraternity who were there, They were welcoming me
into the fraternity. How wonderful it was to get a
Methodist leader like me. And it was just all
laudatory, but I was on a bright light on my face, a
bleak light on my face, and they were all in the dark
in the back of the room. I could not see anybody. It
was kind of a third-degree atmosphere. And then I
heard this voice say, well, wait a minute. What's
this? What's this? This man didn't write that. I
thought you said he was a Methodist. And he went
through my overhearing. And finally a voice came
out and said, Frank, I am deeply shocked. I cannot
believe. Did you sign this paper? Is this your
handwriting? And I admitted that I had. And I
apologized and said I was very tired. And at that
point, I was told I'd been rejected from
membership in SAA, and I broke down and I began to
cry. And then they suddenly turned on the lights,
told me it was all a joke, and I was welcomed into the
fraternity. I cried for an hour after that. The
shock was so great. The embarrassment was so great
from having written those words and being called
on it and being denied membership in the
fraternity. I remember walking up and down with
Bud Bridges. He tried his best to stop me from
crying. I just sobbed and sobbed and sobbed. About
that time of the following year, before we
graduated, Bud was saying, Frank, you really
ought to become a Methodist minister. And I really
thought I should, too. Now, this episode put in
without your request. I'm leaning up to the fact
that in the summer of 36, as a graduation present
from my family, I was given enough money to make a
pilgrimage to Bethlehem in Jerusalem.
The idea would be I'd go to the Holy Land in old
Palestine and visit and then come back and begin
graduate work. for the Methodist ministry. It was
a wonderful opportunity. And with another
fraternity brother who was also studying for the
ministry, we set off for the Holy Land in the summer
of 36. I had never seen any poverty in my life at that
point. That was the seventh year of the American
Depression.
I didn't know there were any poor people. I didn't
know there had been a depression. Didn't you read
the newspapers?
I don't have any reaction on that to me from the
newspapers. I certainly read the newspapers, but
not too much. I remember the newspapers at that
time, I remember so much the only times attacking
Upton Sinclair for being an atheist. I remember
when he was running for governor of California. My
father was very active in political campaigns,
like conservative Republican governors,
Republican mayors, things of that kind. I just
didn't know about it. I, every Saturday and Sunday
night, I was dancing and never thought of going out
without a tuxedo or tails. Always dressed up,
always having a good time. little contradiction
between that and not drinking. I never drank, I
never smoked, but I went out dancing all the time.
Anyway,
I started across the country. I got one
introduction to the problem in December January
1935-36. For as the head of the University
Religious Conference, the Rausch and Bush
Fellowship at UCLA, which is a Baptist group,
invited me to represent the student board of the
Religious Conference to come to a weekend seminar
at Asilomar, Northern California, the YWCA
encampment. I didn't know what it was all about,
When I got up there, I found out that we were going to
have a seminar on the life and work of Jane Adams,
the settlement house worker from Hull House in
Chicago. And a woman named Muriel Lester, who was a
settlement house worker from London, was there to
lead us. And a man named Kagawa from a similar
problem, slum work in Tokyo. was supposed to come.
And we sat there and for two days we heard about the
wonderful life of this woman working among the
poor in Chicago. And I decided when I started for
the Holy Land that I wanted to see this problem. I
wanted to see poor people. I was deeply moved by
what I heard. And my whole Christian upbringing
was to want to do something about the poor.
The first stop on my trip east was to go into
Chicago, look up Hull House. I came upon Maxwell
Street in Chicago in the summer of 1936.
There were tens of thousands of people who were
begging. Poverty I'd never seen in my life.
Unbelievable poverty. People eating out of
garbage cans.
I put in the first ten days I was in Chicago. I spent
all the money that I had budgeted for my first three
months of my traveling by taking people literally
out of garbage cans and bringing them around to the
front of the store and buying them a ten-cent meal.
I had to go through a week
before I realized that my dimes were not making an
impact on the problem.
There's detail on that we don't need. I think what
you want me to give you is our hurried summer here. I
went from Chicago... Well, that must have had a
tremendous impact. That was a changing point.
That was a changing point. You feel that was the
single most important episode then? That was the
first important episode. But from then on, the
attitude... There was an author at that time
called Richard Halliburton. who'd written a book
about the royal road to romance. While I was on the
way to the Holy Land and all that, I was deeply
influenced by the idea of going around the world on
a dollar a day, using a sleeping bag, following the
route of Hannibal over the Alps, swimming the
Bosphorus, all the things that Halliburton did.
It's kind of a smart idea, a junket, fun trip, as
well as going to the Holy Land. All of that
lightheadedness went out in Chicago. From then on
I was just totally changed and almost driven, I
think, to what you'd have to say almost like
wanting to simulate the life of the poorest of the
poor. I went into Chicago and I'd heard about all my
life. I'd heard about the Bowery. The Bowery is a
song. And poor people. Well, I went into the
Bowery, and I came upon the Flophouses of the
Bowery. And I moved in for a month to live in the
Flophouses of the Bowery, trying to, again, just
live the life of male derelicts. And then there was
overwhelming problems.
This was a second experience. Meanwhile, my
family back in L.A. were absolutely horrified at
the letters I was writing home. They sent my older
sister back to pick up a new Packard, which was a car
that had been manufactured in Detroit. Come back
to Detroit, pick up a new Packard, come into New
York with a foster sister, find me, and bring me
home. with the understanding that I could start
over again and travel, as they would have probably
said, like a Wilkinson should travel. My sister
had only a post office box in the Lower East Side of
New York to find me. Then she did locate me, and she
moved into the fanciest hotel in New York, and by
communication we made a date to meet in her hotel
room.
I'm giving you details you don't need. No, I want to
hear this. They
wanted me to come home, and I was telling them that I
was seeing a world that I'd never seen before, the
real world. And I was seeing Christianity in an
entirely different way than we were brought up. I
really felt a challenge, not to just say the
building the kingdom of God on earth as you would in
a Lord's Prayer on a Sunday, but you practice it. It
was the desire to practice the teachings of Christ
that moved me. So I did not return home with her, and
there were some experiences there. We were a very
close family, but I would not go home. And I managed
to catch a freighter, and the freighter out of New
York. I didn't care where I went. I'd go to
Palestine either by way of Asia or through the
Mediterranean. I didn't care. Hopefully the
Mediterranean. But I tried both every day, trying
to get a job working on a freighter. And I finally
got on a Norwegian freighter, which I thought had
been going to Norway. Turns out it was going to
Marseilles, France. And when we got across the
Atlantic, eleven days of travel, The boat
accidentally dropped me in a small
poverty-stricken fishing village in northern
Portugal. It was not even a dock, not a harbor. The
boat's carrying some supplies in by flat bottom
barges from the ocean, from the ocean. And then I
was put off the boat. They needed the space where I
was sleeping. They needed it for business
purposes. So here I am in Portugal, which I learned
for the first time was under a totalitarian
regime, a man named Salazar. And I'm trying to get
to the Holy Land, and the war in Spain has been going
for four months. And you cannot go through Spain,
you cannot go around to North Africa because all
the boats were being sunk.
And I went into the embassy, American embassy in
Lisbon, to try to get some help. And I had fantastic
credentials. The number one thing I had was a cable
address for the Bank of America for $10,000 on
call. That was a lot of money in those days. Oh,
absolutely. And then I had a letter from the mayor,
and the governor, and the police chief, and the
sheriff and the president of the university, all
personal letters in terms of my family and me. I
turned these all into them, and by pure luck there
were a group of Portuguese sportsmen, friends of
Franco, who they knew, who were going in to spend
the weekend with Franco in Seville. And they had a
big limousine, and they called and got permission
for me and my friend to ride with him, and get
through to Seville and then go down to Gibraltar
from Seville, to cut across the southern end of
Spain. Your friend was still with you? Oh, yeah. He
was going through changes, but not the same.
So I found myself entering Spain in the fourth
month of the Civil War with these wealthy
sportsmen, friends of Franco. At that time, I
mean, Spain was a civil war. Franco was fighting
the Communists. That was the way I saw it. I get in
there and I find almost no Spanish troops, all
German, Nazi, Italian fascists. Some Portuguese
under Salazar there. And I went through, you know,
miles and miles and miles through war zones where
the villages had been torn up and blown up. And
third thing, I think, this is not the way I ever
thought about it, but I think going into these
villages and seeing these, thatched roof, adobe
shacks, and in the middle of them a large Catholic
church, really struck me, the poverty and the
church. Why? And I'm glad that I was a Methodist and
not that. In other words, you were glad you were a
Methodist and not a Catholic. I got into Seville,
and the American embassy in Seville was
absolutely horrified. They let me come in because
there were no Americans left in Spain. And they got
me out as quick as they could in a taxi cab with a
reporter for the London Times who was going from
Seville down to Gibraltar. We had to go through
four different army commands to get out of the
country, all during wartime. Very, very tricky.
This reporter for the London Times told us that he
was going to make the first report on the extent of
not only Nazi and Italian influence under Franco,
But no word of that out yet. But right in front of the
American embassy was a giant Texaco oil company
tanker. And we watched, right in front of our
embassy, we watched a hundred German Nazi tanks
pull up alongside with the pipes or hoses hung
over, filling these German tanks with American
Texaco oil. And he was reporting that. At that
time, Roosevelt said we were in a policy of
non-intervention. We were supporting either
side, and we saw that it was a lie. Let's drop all
that. I was changing hourly. Sure. I get across to
Northern Africa, and I'm timing myself. My goal is
to be in Bethlehem for Christmas Eve. This was
about November 1st. So I see as much as I can. I go
through Morocco and Algeria and Tunisia and Libya
for the Gulf of Cedars. I was in Tripoli and
Benghazi and Derna. And traveling always as poor
as I could. This desire to be with the poorest of the
poor. Traveling in boxcars with the peasantry.
Anyway, I finally arrived in Egypt two days before
Christmas and caught a train on up to Jerusalem
across the Sinai Desert. And I arrived there the
morning of Christmas Eve, December 31st. Please
pardon me, December 24th. And I went immediately
out to Bethlehem, or getting out there as quick as I
can. I got out there at dusk. And when I started
getting near the Church of the Nativity, which is,
oh, I'm so thrilled with the idea. My whole idea is
the Christmas carols, Little Town of Bethlehem,
and Silent Night, Holy Night. And I get there, and I
see these crowds and crowds of people around the
entrance to the church. And I get into those crowds
that go in there. And it turns out that 90% of these
crowds were beggars, or begging of pilgrims. They
were barefoot. They were gunnyside cloth. They
were horribly, horribly poor, as poor as anything
I saw in Morocco or Algeria or Tunisia or Libya. And
they were begging for one-tenth of one cent. And I
could not get through the crowds of beggars to get
into the church Christmas Eve. And that was nearly
the end of this whole thing. And I began
formulating. Why 2,000 years of Christianity?
Are there still such a contrast between the
teachings of Christ and the practice? Or 5,000
years of Judaism? Or 1,200 years of Muhammad of
Jerusalem as the center of all three Western
faiths? I spent three months there in the Holy
Land. I'll speed this up for you. I spent three
months there in the Holy Land struggling with my
conscience. I decided early that I would not
become a Methodist minister. I just couldn't see
it. I decided I was going to take the teachings of
Christ and either practice them every minute of my
life, literally, or I was going to candidly admit
my hypocrisy. I was going to be either a hypocrite
openly or an actual practicing Christian. What I
learned in the old city, in Jerusalem, is
unbelievable. You have the tomb of Isaac and
Abraham. You still have virgin births. The
peasants believe that Sarah, the wife of Abraham,
has influence with childbearing. So barren women
come there to pray, and hopefully, as a result, God
will give them a child. I saw it, and I was laughing.
My God, it's the whole idea of the Immaculate
Conception falls apart.
By the time I left Jerusalem, I had become an
atheist. Three months. That's incredible. I
wrote a letter to Robert Gordon Sproul. Oh, I know,
I took a bicycle. I bought a bicycle in Jerusalem.
An old, old, old beaten-up bicycle. No, no, uh,
What do you call it? Pedals. Pedals, you know, the
kind that you, where you get gears, you know. Yeah,
no gears, yeah. Just old-fashioned bicycle.
Yeah. And with my fraternity brother, we decided,
all right, let's go see Europe. So we bicycled
throughout all of Palestine and all of Syria and
Lebanon, and then through Greece and England,
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, France,
You know, it took a year. Covered every country in
Europe, finally. Did your friend also become an
atheist? No. He became more and more devout, a
Christian. And we began differing, and made our
travels together difficult. Very interesting
what happened to him. Saw the same thing, same
background, and react differently. Yes, that is
interesting. He'd have me go along with him. He'd
go into the various tombs where I believe Christ
arose from the dead. He'd wait until the light
would come down through the rocks and have a very
expensive camera, and I would take a picture of him
praying at Christ's tomb. He went down to the
Jordan, and a Baptist minister baptized him in the
Jordan, in the place where Christ was baptized.
And I rode out in a boat to catch him exactly at the
moment of baptism. I was his These were pictures he
was going to take home to help him with his new
ministry when he got back, by visit to the Holy
Land. I just thought he was terrible. And, you
know, we argued. At any rate, on my way from along
the coast of Tyre and Sidon up to Beirut on bicycle,
I see a sign called the American University
outside of Beirut. And I pull in there, and I go in
looking for a library. I want to see books. I
thought I was the first person that ever doubted
there was a God. And where to look? Where's the word
God? Where can I find these things? And I wrote
there, wrote a long, long letter to Robert Gordon
Sproul, who was the president of the University of
California. And I was his hope, because I was the
conservative that was protecting the
appropriations of the state legislature. And I
wrote him, I remember writing, Dear Bob, there is
no God. It's a misunderstanding of the unknown,
and so on. I lived for three months under
Mussolini, three months under Hitler. I lived in
the ghetto of Warsaw. I saw programs in Romania. I
just saw... things that no mind ever saw. I really
got educated. I came back to L.A. a year and a half
after I left. Totally changed.
Totally committed to teaching the practice of
Christianity, but not wanting to be any part of
organized religion. I went back to that Hollywood
Methodist Church, early 1938. And I remember
making and then bringing new
black friends of mine. I'd never had any touch with
racism except as maids in my home up until the trip.
But bringing them to that Hollywood Methodist
church, just to shock them. That church had not
accepted Democrats, to say nothing of accepting
minorities. And all the church did was just to say,
you pat me on the back and tell my family not to
worry. Everybody was shocked and worried.
Everybody was shocked and worried. But they were
saying, don't worry about Frank. He'll be all
right. And at that point is where the end of this
thing begins. A Catholic priest in L.A.,
Monsignor Thomas J. O'Dwyer, Archdiocesan
Director of Charities, heard about me and came out
to my home in Beverly Hills to talk to me. I didn't
know about what. And I really let it into him,
because I'd seen the role of the Catholic Church in
Europe, in Spain. It seemed to me like the Catholic
Church was worse than any of them in terms of its
contradiction between teachings and practice.
He didn't argue with me. He just let me talk. When I
was all through, he simply said, my son, you did not
need to go so far to get so excited. He took me in his
car from my home in Beverly Hills, eight miles out
to the ghetto of Watts, and showed me housing
conditions in Watts equal to what I'd seen in
Bethlehem and Jerusalem.
And offered me a job as his secretary for $15 a week
to become the, his secretary on a program to make
Los Angeles free of slums. And it was from there,